Fernando helm lab (#116)
replicatedhq/kots-field-labs: labs/lab18-helm-charts/README.md

Lab 18: Using Helm Charts
=========================================

> In this lab, you will learn how to include a Helm Chart in your Replicated Application. For this lab we wil use a simpler HelmChart, but the concepts covered here should help you understand how to handle more complex and larger charts. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this lab, you will learn how to include a Helm Chart in your Replicated Application. For this lab we wil use a simpler HelmChart, but the concepts covered here should help you understand how to handle larger and more complex charts. 
```

tiny style tweak

In this lab, we'll cover the following:

* Packaging a Helm Chart from source
* Adding a Helm Chart to a Replicated Application Release

> * Map config fields to fields in the Values file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Mapping config fields to fields in the Values file
```

* Deploy the Helm Chart using the Replicated Application Manager

> * Cover how to manage private images

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Manging private images
```

> * Cover how to manage multiple HelmCharts in a single Replicated Application Release

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Managing multiple HelmCharts in a single Replicated Application Release
```

## Prerequisites

> While not an absolute requirement, this lab is written with *nix systems in mind, not Windows. If you are following this lab on a Windows machine and find gaps, please let us know.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While not an absolute requirement, this lab is written with *nix workstations in mind, not Windows. If you are following this lab on a Windows machine and find gaps, please let us know.
```

You will need to have the following installed:

* Lastest version of Helm - In the writing and testing of the lab, we used version 3.8.2
* Git

You also should have received an invite to join Replicated. Make sure you accepted and activated your account.

## Packaging Helm Chart

> For this lab we are going to use the WordPress [Helm Chart](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/tree/master/bitnami/wordpress) available from Bitnami. The Helm Chart includes a couple of sub charts (common and MariaDB) as dependencies. In order to ensure that future updates won't break this lab, we are going to be using a specific version of the chart, 14.0.7

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this lab we are going to use the WordPress [Helm Chart](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/tree/master/bitnami/wordpress) available from Bitnami. The Helm Chart includes a couple of sub charts (common and MariaDB) as dependencies. In order to ensure that future updates won't break this lab, we are going to be using a specific version of the chart, 14.0.7.
```

### 0. Get Dev Environment ready

We will be running some commands on the terminal and will download some files. Let's create a directory where we'll do our work

```bash
   $ mkdir repl-helm-lab

>    $ cd repl-helm-lab

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cd repl-helm-lab
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: I think it is because we ask them to clone the bitnami repo

```

This command will have downloaded all the bitnami helm chart files. In order to include a Helm Chart in Replicated, we have to package it first.

### 2. Change Directory to the Wordpress Chart

As mentioned above, this repo contains several Helm Charts, and we want to only package WordPress, so we need to change directory:

```bash
cd bitnami/wordpress/
```

We are now at the root of the Wordpress Helm Chart. If you list the contents of this directory, you will see that it contains a `Chart.yaml` and `Values.yaml` file. The `Chart.yaml` contains details about the chart, and the `Values.yaml` contains fields that the end user can override with their own values. Fields in this file can also be passed as parameters when you run `helm install`.

Let's verify that we are using the correct version of the chart by looking at the contents:
```bash
cat Chart.yaml
```

At the end of the file we should see the following:

```bash
...
name: wordpress
sources:
  - https://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-wordpress
  - https://wordpress.org/
version: 14.0.7
```

### 3. Package the Helm Chart

To package the chart, we are going to run the `helm package` command.

> As mentioned above, this Helm Chart includes some dependencies. To ensure that these are included in this Chart, include the `-u` option. Also note that we are passing a `.` for the location of the chart. This is where the top level ```Chart.yaml``` file is located. For more details on this command, please refer to the [Helm Documentation](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_package/#helm).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned above, this Helm Chart includes some dependencies. To ensure that these are included in this Chart, include the `-u` option. Also note that we are passing a `.` for the location of the chart. This argument indicates the path to a directory containing the top level ```Chart.yaml``` file. For more details on `helm package`, please refer to the [Helm Documentation](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_package/#helm).
```

```bash
helm package -u .
```
The command may display some warnings, but ultimately should display an output similar to

```

> Successfully packaged chart and saved it to: /Users/fernandocremer/test/tests/charts/bitnami/wordpress/wordpress-14.0.7.tgz

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Successfully packaged chart and saved it to: /Users/fernandocremer/test/repl-helm-lab/charts/bitnami/wordpress/wordpress-14.0.7.tgz
```

```

We will include this file in our Replicated Application Release.

## Adding the Helm Chart to a Release

You should have received an invite to log into https://vendor.replicated.com -- you'll want to accept this invite and set your password. 

> In this lab, we have already created an application for you, but there are no releases created yet. We are going to cover creating the release with the UI and through the CLI. Going through the UI is easier and better if you just want to understand the basic concepts as it will automatically create resources for you. With the CLI, we'll take a more 'starting from scratch' approach. Later in the lab we'll be making changes to the application, and will only cover the CLI.

Reviewer: Ah I think I get it -- we had to adjust the code to allow for spinning up a lab with *no* releases at all. Makes sense

> In this lab, we have already created an application for you, but there are no releases created yet. We are going to cover creating the release with the UI and through the CLI. Going through the UI is easier and better if you just want to understand the basic concepts as it will automatically create resources for you. With the CLI, we'll take a more 'starting from scratch' approach. Later in the lab we'll be making changes to the application, and will only cover the CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this lab, an application has already been created but there are no releases yet. We are going to cover creating the release with the UI and through the CLI. Attaching your chart through the UI is easier and better if you just want to understand the basic concepts as it will automatically create resources for you. Later in this lab, we'll cover using the Replicated CLI to create and update releases in a helm-based application.
```

### Using the UI

* Log in to the Vendor Portal using your email and password.
* On the navigation menu, select **Releases**

    <p align="center"><img src="img/releases.png" alt="vendor-ui" width="1000" margin=auto/></img></p>

* Click on **Create Release**

    <p align="center"><img src="img/create-release.png" alt="create-release" width="1000" margin=auto/></img></p>

* We will not use the default nginx app, so let's delete the following files:
    * example-configmap.yaml
    * example-deployment.yaml
    * example-service.yaml

    <p align="center"><img src="img/delete-files.png" alt="files-to-delete" width="1000" margin=auto/></img></p>

> * Now we are ready to add the Chart! Open a window and browse to the directory where the Helm Chart we created is located.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Now we are ready to add the Chart! Open a window and browse to the directory where the Helm Chart we created is located. From your terminal on macos, you can use `open .` to quickly get a finder window open.
```

    <p align="center"><img src="img/dragchart.png" alt="drag and drop chart" width="1000" margin=auto/></img></p>

* You will be prompted to select which method to use when deploying the Helm Chart:
   
    <p align="center"><img src="img/helm-opts.png" alt="helm options" width="600" margin=auto/></img></p>

   * **Native Helm** - This should be the default option and should be the one selected. With this option, App Manager will use Helm to deploy the Helm Chart in the customer's environment.
   * **Replicated** - This option will eventually be depecrated and should not be selected. With this option, App Manager will first generate Kubernetes Manifests from the Helm Chart (i.e., run `helm template`) before they are deployed to the cluster as manifests.

* Note how a new file is automatically created by Replicated that includes details about the chart we just added.

<p align="center"><img src="img/helm-file.png" alt="helm file" width="600" margin=auto/></img></p>

As a last step, save the release we've created 
<p align="center"><img src="img/save release.png" alt="helm file" width="600" margin=auto/></img></p>

> 

Reviewer: not a blocker but just wanted to note this linter warning

<img width="688" alt="Screen Shot 2022-07-09 at 1 12 36 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3730605/178118014-cb2c5161-3723-4a48-96b6-5e31d5a38f9d.png">

Reviewer 2: I think this warning is expected. Even if you would point it to a valid resource as part of the Helm Chart. Only way to get rid of the warning would be not to use `statusInformers`. But that is also not really what we want.

### Using the CLI

> For the CLI, you should have already completed the [Hello World](https://github.com/replicatedhq/kots-field-labs/blob/main/labs/lab00-hello-world/README.md) Lab, as it covers how to set up your local Dev environment with the Replicated CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before working with the Replicated CLI, you should have already completed the [Hello World Lab](https://github.com/replicatedhq/kots-field-labs/blob/main/labs/lab00-hello-world/README.md) which covers how to set up a local dev environment with the Replicated CLI.
```

> Make sure to update your environment variables to interact with this application. See [Get Started -> Steps 1 and 2](https://github.com/replicatedhq/kots-field-labs/blob/main/labs/lab00-hello-world/README.md)

Reviewer: let's link directly to the config heading

```suggestion
Make sure to update your environment variables to interact with this application. See [Get Started -> Steps 1 and 2](https://github.com/replicatedhq/kots-field-labs/blob/main/labs/lab00-hello-world/README.md#2-configure-environment)
```

> `REPLICATED_APP` should be set to the app slug from the Settings page. You should have received your App Name

Reviewer: I think this might be confusing. Whether they received it or not, they don't actually need it to navigate to settings and get the slug, right?

```suggestion
`REPLICATED_APP` should be set to the app slug from the Settings page.
```

Reviewer 2: And they never really receive it. Since we have rbac, this part should be removed from all labs instructions.

ahead of time.

<p align="center"><img src="img/application-slug.png" alt="Application Slug" width="600" margin=auto/></img></p>

> `REPLICATED_API_TOKEN` should be set to the previously created user api token. See [Get Started -> Steps 1 and 2](https://github.com/replicatedhq/kots-field-labs/blob/main/labs/lab00-hello-world/README.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`REPLICATED_API_TOKEN` should be set to the previously created user api token. See [Get Started -> Steps 1 and 2](https://github.com/replicatedhq/kots-field-labs/blob/main/labs/lab00-hello-world/README.md#2-configure-environment)
```

Once you have the values, set them in your environment. If you are still in the `charts` directory, let's get back to the root of the directory we created earlier

```bash

>     $ cd ../../..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cd ../../..
```

```

> Now to set your environment variables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you haven't already, set your environment variables:
```

```bash

>     $ export REPLICATED_APP=...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export REPLICATED_APP=...
```

>     $ export REPLICATED_API_TOKEN=...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export REPLICATED_API_TOKEN=...
```

```

We need a directory that will contain the Helm Chart and the Replicated manifests. Let's create a directory for our application, and in there a `manifests` directory that will contain the manifests and helm chart.

```bash

>    $ mkdir helm-wordpress

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mkdir helm-wordpress
```

>    $ cd helm-wordpress

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cd helm-wordpress
```

>    $ mkdir manifests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mkdir manifests
```

```

We need to move the helm chart package we created previously to the manifests directory we just created. Depending on where your helm chart was created, the path in the example command below may be different.

```bash

>     $ mv ../charts/bitnami/wordpress/wordpress-14.0.7.tgz manifests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mv ../charts/bitnami/wordpress/wordpress-14.0.7.tgz manifests
```

```

Next, let's create a couple of manifests to finish our first release. Both of these manifests are Replicated [Custom Resources](https://docs.replicated.com/reference/custom-resource-about) and should be created in the `manifests` directory.

#### Adding kots-app.yaml

The first Custom Resource we'll create is [Application](https://docs.replicated.com/reference/custom-resource-application). This manifest includes details about the application we created.

``` yaml

> #kots-app.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cat <<EOF > manifests/kots-app.yaml
```

Reviewer: @jdewinne @cremerfc  what do you think about a heredoc instead of "make this file however you want". ?

Reviewer 2: I'm ok with either. If you came this far through the labs, and you know Helm, I'm going to assume you can also create file in your favorite editor of choice.

Reviewer: okay we can leave for now, easy to change later. I have proposed a few things in the style guide as far as consolidating on one way or another

apiVersion: kots.io/v1beta1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: helm-wordpress
spec:
  title: Helm Wordpress
  icon: https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/9/93/Wordpress_Blue_logo.png
  statusInformers:
    - deployment/wordpress

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
EOF
```

```

#### Adding wordpress.yaml

> The second Custom Resource we'll create is [Helm Chart](https://docs.replicated.com/reference/custom-resource-helmchart). This file has information about the Wordpress Helm Chart. This file is specific to the Helm Chart, so if your application contains multiple, separate charts, you will need a manifest for each Helm Chart. You do not need to define a `Helm Chart` manifest for any chart included as a sub-chart.

Reviewer: just a few small tweaks for clarity

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the following to `manifests/wordpress.yaml`:
```

```yaml
#wordpress.yaml
apiVersion: kots.io/v1beta1
kind: HelmChart
metadata:
  name: wordpress
spec:
  # chart identifies a matching chart from a .tgz
  chart:
    name: wordpress
    chartVersion: "14.0.7"
  # helmVersion identifies the Helm Version used to render the chart. Default is v2.
  helmVersion: v3

  # useHelmInstall identifies whether this Helm chart will use the
  # Replicated Helm installation (false) or native Helm installation (true). Default is false.
  # Native Helm installations are only available for Helm v3 charts.
  useHelmInstall: true

  # weight determines the order that charts with "useHelmInstall: true" are applied, with lower weights first.
  weight: 0

  # values are used in the customer environment, as a pre-render step
  # these values will be supplied to helm template
  values: {}
```

> Before we create our release, let's initialize git. We will use a command line option that uses Git metadata to determine the version label, channel to promote to and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before we create our release, let's initialize git. We will use a command line option that uses Git metadata to determine the version label, channel to promote to and more.
From the `repl-helm-lab/helm-wordpress` directory, run the following.
```

Just wanna be extra clear here since doing this wrong becomes a pain to back out

```bash

>     $ git init

Reviewer: ```suggestion
git init
```

>     $ git add .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 git add .
```

>     $ git commit -m "this is my first commit"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
git commit -m "this is my first commit"
```

```
Now we are ready to create our first release:

```bash

>     $ replicated release create --auto --promote lab18-helm-charts -y

Reviewer: ```suggestion
replicated release create --auto --promote lab18-helm-charts -y
```

```

## Deploy the Application

> 

Reviewer: The user won't have gotten an embedded install command from the vendor portal yet. This either needs a screenshot, or me being scrappy, just point them to the lab 0 instructions:

```suggestion
We now have something we can deploy! Before you log into the server provided, use the same steps from [Lab 0: Hello World](https://github.com/replicatedhq/kots-field-labs/blob/main/labs/lab00-hello-world/README.md#6-getting-an-install-command) to get an install command for the `lab18-helm-charts` channel:

    replicated channel inspect lab18-helm-charts
```

> We now have something we can deploy! As part of this lab, you were provided with the IP address of a Virtual Machine. Log in using `ssh kots@{IP-Address}` using the IP address provided. The password will be provided during this lab.

Reviewer: I was unable to SSH the server using this command

> We now have something we can deploy! As part of this lab, you were provided with the IP address of a Virtual Machine. Log in using `ssh kots@{IP-Address}` using the IP address provided. The password will be provided during this lab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As part of this lab, you were provided with the IP address of a Virtual Machine. Log in using `ssh kots@{IP-Address}` using the IP address provided. The password will be provided during this lab.
```

> Once you are on the terminal, copy the "Embedded Cluster" install command from the channel (`lab18-helm-charts`). It should look like

Reviewer: The user won't have gotten an embedded install command from the vendor portal yet. This either needs a screenshot, or me being scrappy, just point them to the lab 0 instructions:

```suggestion
Once you are logged into the server, use the same steps from [Lab 0: Hello World](https://github.com/replicatedhq/kots-field-labs/blob/main/labs/lab00-hello-world/README.md#6-getting-an-install-command) to get an install command for the `lab18-helm-charts` channel:

    replicated channel inspect lab18-helm-charts
```

> Once you are on the terminal, copy the "Embedded Cluster" install command from the channel (`lab18-helm-charts`). It should look like

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you are on the terminal, use the the "Embedded Cluster" install command from the `replicated channel inspect` command you ran about. It should look like
```

```
curl -sSL https://k8s.kurl.sh/YOUR-APP-NAME-lab18-helm-charts | sudo bash
```

> Go through the installation steps in kotsadm to install the application. You should have already completed [Lab0: Hello World](https://github.com/replicatedhq/kots-field-labs/blob/main/labs/lab00-hello-world/README.md), so this should be familiar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once this kicks off, consider grabbing a cup of coffee as the Kubernetes installation can take 5-10 minutes 🙂

Once the install is complete, follow the IP provided and continue with the installation steps in the App Manager UI to upload a license install the application. Since you have already completed [Lab0: Hello World](https://github.com/replicatedhq/kots-field-labs/blob/main/labs/lab00-hello-world/README.md), this should be pretty familiar.
```

> 

Reviewer: **Needs a change** -- I would have expected a screenshot or a command to run that shows that I've completed the initial install correctly.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the deployment is finished, you should be able to see the wordpress pods running with `1/1` containers Ready from the server:

    $ kubectl get pod
    
    NAME                                  READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    kotsadm-5679796d6b-gjzzm              1/1     Running   0          23m
    kotsadm-postgres-0                    1/1     Running   0          23m
    kurl-proxy-kotsadm-74994888d8-qm8nc   1/1     Running   0          23m
    wordpress-7b77bfd7ff-tdck5            1/1     Running   0          2m10s
    wordpress-mariadb-0                   1/1     Running   0          2m10s
    
In the KOTS App Manager UI, you should see the App Status as reporting "Ready":

<img width="836" alt="Screen Shot 2022-07-10 at 2 21 02 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3730605/178159032-78a043fd-5cb2-4dee-bba0-8bc5c6bd070e.png">

```

## Mapping Field Values

> Let's take some of the field values and map them to the ui!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we've gotten the Wordpress chart running with the default configuration, we'll take some of the helm chart values and make them user-configurable in App Manager.
```

We are going to make two changes:

> * Map the `wordpressBlogName` field in the Values.yaml file to a UI field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Map the `wordpressBlogName` field in the Values.yaml file to a user-configurable field in the App Manager UI.
```

* Override the default port of 80 to 8080.

### Copy the field name from the Values file

For this lab we are going to use the `wordpressBlogName` field in the values file and expose it in the UI. For reference, we are going to be referencing fields in the ../charts/bitnami/wordpress/values.yaml file.

> ![Values File](./img/values-file.png)

Reviewer: Nice use of screenshot here 🚀

### Create a field in the Config.yaml file

Create a file under `manifests` named `kots-config.yaml` file with the following contents:

```yaml
apiVersion: kots.io/v1beta1
kind: Config
metadata:
  name: wordpress-config
spec:
  groups:
    - name: wordpress
      title: Wordpress
      description: Wordpress Defaults
      items:
        - name: wordpressBlogName
          title: Wordpress Blog Name
          type: text

```

> As you can see, we are using the values field name as the config field name and used for the title, which is what the end user will see.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While not required, it is generally recommended to match the `name` field in Config items to helm value key they'll be used to map, and then use a more descriptive name for the `title` which will be displayed in the UI.
```

### Map the Config file field with the field in the Values file

Edit the `wordpress.yaml` file and scroll down to the values section and make the following changes:

```diff
# values are used in the customer environment, as a pre-render step
# these values will be supplied to helm template
-- values: {}
++ values:
++   wordpressBlogName: '{{repl ConfigOption "wordpressBlogName"}}'
```

> 

Reviewer: Love the use of `diff` here!

Now we are ready to create our next release:

```bash

>     $ replicated release create --auto --promote lab18-helm-charts -y

Reviewer: ```suggestion
replicated release create --auto --promote lab18-helm-charts -y
```

```

## Update the Application

Let's see our changes on the Admin Console. Click on Check for Update as shown below.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<img width="880" alt="Screen Shot 2022-07-10 at 2 39 25 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3730605/178159601-7ed76d10-46f7-4a8a-90cc-6f17a42e9284.png">

```

> Before you click on Deploy, note that now you have a Config tab with our field in it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

I got a weird error when I navigated to the config tab since sequence 1 release doesn't have a Config.yaml, you get this weird issue:  

<img width="381" alt="Screen Shot 2022-07-10 at 2 44 16 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3730605/178160014-9e76abe5-341c-4131-ac0b-73901981e964.png">

We should consider either including an empty config in the initial release, or we could instruct the user to deploy before navigating to Config.

Deploy the new version of our app

> 

Reviewer: This is missing a step to configure the title and see the change reflected. Should we skip the deployment / validation in KOTS until after all the changes are made?

  helmVersion: v3

  # useHelmInstall identifies whether this Helm chart will use the
  # Replicated Helm installation (false) or native Helm installation (true). Default is false.
  # Native Helm installations are only available for Helm v3 charts.
  useHelmInstall: true

  # weight determines the order that charts with "useHelmInstall: true" are applied, with lower weights first.
  weight: 0

  # values are used in the customer environment, as a pre-render step
  # these values will be supplied to helm template
  values:
    wordpressBlogName: '{{repl ConfigOption "wordpressBlogName"}}'
    mariadb:
      auth:
        rootPassword: '{{ repl ConfigOption "wordpress-db-secret"}}'

```

## Make Update to Access Wordpress UI

By default, Wordpress runs on port 80 but given that it is a pretty popular port it may already be in use. Also, Wordpress by default uses a service of typy LoadBalancer. In the `values.yaml` file, this is exposed like this:

```diff
    values:
      wordpressBlogName: '{{repl ConfigOption "wordpressBlogName"}}'
++    service:
++    type: NodePort
++    ports:
++      http: 8080
++    nodePorts:

> ++      http: "8080"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
++        http: "8080"
```

      mariadb:
        auth:
          rootPassword: '{{ repl ConfigOption "wordpress-db-secret"}}'
```

## Update and Test Change

Create our next release using the `replicated` cli:

```bash
    $ replicated release create --auto --promote lab18-helm-charts -y
```

Now that we have a new release available, let's update our deployed application to test the change.

Click on **Check for Update** and click on **Deploy** once available. Once deployed, you should be able to browse to port `8080` and see Wordpress.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<img width="880" alt="Screen Shot 2022-07-10 at 3 02 51 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3730605/178160342-bb7c897d-1baa-46f4-a5d1-1503921d50de.png">

```

# Additional Info

## Airgap: Optional Images

Another thing to consider about images is making sure that all of them will be available in an airgap install. For example,  you may have a service like database that they customer has the option to deploy or connect to their own instance. In an airgap installation, you would need to make sure that the image is included in the bundle in case a user selects to deploy the service. You can include optional charts in the Airgap bundle, by using the `builder` attribute. For more details on how Replicated creates the airgap bundles automatically, see the [Helm Air Gap Builder](https://docs.replicated.com/vendor/helm-airgap-builder).

## Using Multiple Charts

> In this lab we have used a single chart that contained two sub-charts. Note that a Replicated Application Release can contain more than one Helm chart. If you do need to include more than one Helm chart, it is important to understand the sequence by which these charts are deployed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this lab we have used a single chart that contained two sub-charts. Note that a Replicated Application Release can contain more than one Helm chart. If you do need to include more than one Helm chart, it is important to understand the sequence in which these charts are deployed. 
```

> Starting with version 1.69* of App Manager, charts are deployed in alphanumeric order. If this is not the sequence that you desire, you can use the `weight` field in the corresponding Replicated `kind:helmchart` file. The default value is 0 for any charts that do not have this field specified. Charts will be deployed in ascending numeric order based on this field. *For charts that have the same weight specified, then alpha numeric order takes precendence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting with version 1.69* of App Manager, charts are deployed in alphanumeric order. If this is not the sequence that you desire, you can use the `weight` field in the corresponding Replicated `kind: HelmChart` file. The default `weight` is 0 for all charts. If an app contains multiple Charts with the same `weight`, those charts will be deployed in alphanumeric order.
```
